doc-source/analytics-events.md, before:

# Events Charts<a name="analytics-events"></a>

The charts on the **Events** page help you see trends by displaying charts for a specified event type and its attributes\. You can filter the charts on the page to show any event that your application reports\.

## Viewing the Events Charts<a name="analytics-events-view"></a>

You can view the **Events** charts in the Amazon Pinpoint console\. You can filter the charts on this page by date, event type, and event attributes\.

**To view and filter the Events charts**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **Pinpoint Projects** page, choose the project that you want to view revenue metrics for\.

1. In the navigation pane, under **Analytics**, choose **Events**\.

1. \(Optional\) To filter the charts by a specific date or range of dates, choose **Last 30 days**, and then specify a date range\.

1. For **Event**, choose an event type to filter the charts by\.

1. For **Attributes**, specify the event attributes to filter the charts by\.

## Chart Descriptions<a name="analytics-events-description"></a>

The **Events** page includes the following charts:

**Event count**  
This chart displays the number of events that are reported by your app for each day in the selected time period\. This chart also provides the average number of events per day, the total number of events in the time period, and the percentage change in the number of events from the beginning to the end of the time period\.

**Endpoint count**  
This chart displays the number of endpoints that reported the selected event for each day in the selected time period\. This chart also provides the average number of endpoints that reported the event each day, the total number of endpoints that reported the event each day, and the percentage change in the number of endpoints that reported the event from the beginning to the end of the time period\.

**Events per session**  
This chart displays the average number of events that occur in each app session for each day in the selected time period\. Amazon Pinpoint calculates this metric by dividing the number of times the selected event occurred each day by the number of sessions that occurred that day\.  
This chart also provides the average number of events per session for the entire time period, and the percentage change in the number of events per session from the beginning to the end of the time period\.

Commit message:

Updated multiple analytics and channel topics, and added a topic about managing the email suppression list

doc-source/analytics-events.md, after:

# Events Charts<a name="analytics-events"></a>

The charts and metrics on the **Events** page help you see trends by displaying data for a specific type of event and its attributes\. You can filter the data on the page to show any event that your application reports to Amazon Pinpoint\.

## Viewing the Events Charts<a name="analytics-events-view"></a>

Complete the following steps to view the **Events** charts and metrics on the Amazon Pinpoint console\. You can filter the data by date, event, and endpoint attributes\.

**To view and filter the Events charts**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **All projects** page, choose the project that you want to view event metrics for\.

1. In the navigation pane, under **Analytics**, choose **Events**\.

1. \(Optional\) To apply a filter that displays the data for a specific date or range of dates, use the date selector at the top of the page to choose the dates  for the time period that you want\. After you choose new dates, the page updates to show the data for the selected time period\.

1. \(Optional\) To apply a filter that displays the data for only specific events or types of events, choose the event type from the **Event** list, and then choose the event attributes or metrics and values from the **Event Attributes and Metrics** and **Event Attribute Values** lists\. To further filter the data, repeat this step for each additional event that you want to filter the data by\.

1. \(Optional\) To apply a filter that displays data for only those endpoints that have specific attributes, choose the attribute from the **Endpoint Attributes** list, and then choose the attribute value from the **Endpoint Attribute Values** list\. To further filter the data, repeat this step for each additional attribute and attribute value that you want to filter the data by\.

## Chart Descriptions<a name="analytics-events-description"></a>

The **Events** page includes the following sections:

**Event count**  
This chart displays the number of events that were reported by your app for each day in the selected time period\. This chart also provides the average number of events per day, the total number of events in the time period, and the percentage change in the number of events from the beginning to the end of the time period\.

**Endpoint count**  
This chart displays the number of endpoints that reported the selected event for each day in the selected time period\. This chart also provides the average number of endpoints that reported the event each day, the total number of endpoints that reported the event each day, and the percentage change in the number of endpoints that reported the event from the beginning to the end of the time period\.

**Events per session**  
This chart displays the average number of events that occurred in each app session for each day in the selected time period\. Amazon Pinpoint calculates this metric by dividing the number of times the selected event occurred each day by the number of sessions that occurred that day\.  
This chart also provides the average number of events per session for the entire time period, and the percentage change in the number of events per session from the beginning to the end of the time period\.
