doc-source/campaigns-segment.md, before:

# Step 2: Specify the Audience Segment for the Campaign<a name="campaigns-segment"></a>

When creating a campaign, you can specify which audience segment to reach with your campaign by creating a new segment or choosing one that was previously created\.

**Prerequisite**  
Before you begin, complete [Step 1: Begin a New Campaign](campaigns-begin.md)\.

**To specify a segment**
+ For the **Segment** step in **Create a campaign**, specify a segment in one of the following ways:
  + Choose **Create a new segment** and follow the steps under *To build a segment*\.
  + Choose **Use a previously defined segment** and select the segment that you want to target\. Then, choose **Next step**\.

**To build a segment**

To build your segment, define the segmentation criteria\. As you choose criteria, the **Segment estimate** shows how many users the segment includes\.  
![\[The segment estimate shows how many users belong to the segment with the selected criteria.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/images/segments_estimate.png)![\[The segment estimate shows how many users belong to the segment with the selected criteria.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)![\[The segment estimate shows how many users belong to the segment with the selected criteria.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)

1. For **Name your segment to reuse it later**, type a name to make your segment easy to recognize\.

1. If you selected **Mobile push** as the channel type, define the **App usage criteria**\. Select which users belong to the segment based on whether they have \(or haven't\) used your app within the specified number of days\.  
![\[The app usage criteria options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/images/segments_usage.png)![\[The app usage criteria options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)![\[The app usage criteria options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)

1. \(Optional\) For **Filter by standard attributes**, define which users belong to the segment based on the characteristics that are standard to Amazon Pinpoint\.  
![\[The device attributes options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/images/segments_standard_attributes.png)![\[The device attributes options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)![\[The device attributes options.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)

1. \(Optional\) For **Filter by custom attributes** and **Filter by user attributes**, define which users belong to the segment based on custom attributes that you add to your Amazon Pinpoint endpoint resources\.

1. If you chose to create a standard campaign, you can use this page to allocate the **holdout**, which is the percentage of users in the segment who will not receive messages from the campaign\.  
![\[The holdout slider.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/images/campaigns_holdout.png)![\[The holdout slider.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)![\[The holdout slider.\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/latest/userguide/)

   If you're creating an A/B test, you allocate the holdout when you define the message or schedule\.

1. When you finish defining the segment, choose **Next step**\.

**Next**  
[Step 3: Write the Message](campaigns-message.md)

Commit message:

Updated documentation for new Pinpoint console user interface.

doc-source/campaigns-segment.md, after:

# Step 2: Specify the Audience for the Campaign<a name="campaigns-segment"></a>

When you create a campaign, you choose a *segment* to send that campaign to\. A segment is a group of your customers that share certain attributes\. For example, a segment might contain all of your customers who use version 2\.0 of your app on an Android device, or all customers who live in the city of Los Angeles\. 

**Prerequisite**  
Before you begin, complete [Step 1: Create a Campaign](campaigns-begin.md)\.

**To specify a segment**

1. On the **Choose a segment** page, choose one of the following options:
   + **Use an existing segment** – Choose this option if you've already created a segment and you're ready to send your campaign to it\.
   + **Create a segment** – Choose this option if you haven't created any segments yet, or if you want to create a new segment for this campaign\. If you choose this option, create a segment by completing the procedures in [Building Segments](segments-building.md)\.

1. \(Optional\) Under **Segment hold\-out**, specify the percentage of segment members who shouldn't receive this campaign\. Amazon Pinpoint chooses the appropriate number of segment members at random, and omits them from the campaign\. 

   You can use this feature to perform hold\-out testing\. In a hold\-out test, you omit a sample group of random recipients, and then compare their behaviors \(for example, the number of purchases they make\) against the behaviors of the customers who received the campaign\. In this way, you can determine the effectiveness of your campaigns\. 

**Next**  
[Step 3: Write the Message](campaigns-message.md)
