doc-source/channels-email-setup-create.md, before:

# Creating an Amazon Pinpoint Project with Email Support<a name="channels-email-setup-create"></a>

To send email messages with Amazon Pinpoint, you must create an Amazon Pinpoint project, and then enable the email channel in that project\. There are two ways to create an Amazon Pinpoint project: by using the AWS Mobile Hub console, or by using the Amazon Pinpoint API\.

**Topics**
+ [Create a New Project by Using the Console](#channels-email-setup-create-console)
+ [Create a New Project by Using the Amazon Pinpoint API](#channels-email-setup-create-cli)

## Create a New Project by Using the Console<a name="channels-email-setup-create-console"></a>

If your project is based on a mobile app, you can create a project by using the Mobile Hub console\. By creating a project in the Mobile Hub console, you gain access to the features of Mobile Hub, such as user sign\-in and cloud\-based data storage\. When you create a project by using the following procedure, your project automatically appears in the Amazon Pinpoint console\.

**To create a Mobile Hub project by using the console**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **Projects** page, choose **Create a project in Mobile Hub**\.

1. For **Enter a name for your Mobile Hub project**, type a name, and then choose **Create project**\.

1. Under **What engagement features do you want to enable**, choose **Messaging**\.

1. Under **What messaging channels do you want to enable**, choose **Email**\.

1. Under **Do you want to enable email messaging**, choose **Enable**\.

1. Verify an identity by completing the procedures in [Verifying an Email Identity](channels-email-manage-verify.md)\.

## Create a New Project by Using the Amazon Pinpoint API<a name="channels-email-setup-create-cli"></a>

You can also create a project by using the Amazon Pinpoint API\. The steps in this section show you how to interact with the API by using the AWS CLI\. These steps assume that you've configured the AWS CLI to interact with your AWS account\. For more information about installing and configuring the AWS CLI, see the [AWS Command Line Interface User Guide](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/)\.

**To create a project by using the AWS CLI**

1. At the command line, type the following command to create a new project: 

   ```
   aws pinpoint create-app --create-application-request Name="My Email Project"
   ```

   Replace *My Email Project* in this command with a name for the project\.

1. Verify an identity by completing the procedures in [Verifying an Email Identity](channels-email-manage-verify.md)\.

Commit message:

Updated documentation for new Pinpoint console user interface.

doc-source/channels-email-setup-create.md, after:

# Creating an Amazon Pinpoint Project with Email Support<a name="channels-email-setup-create"></a>

To send email messages with Amazon Pinpoint, you must create an Amazon Pinpoint project, and then enable the email channel in that project\. There are two ways to create an Amazon Pinpoint project: by using the Amazon Pinpoint console, or by using the Amazon Pinpoint API\. This section shows you how to create a project by using the console\.

**Topics**
+ [Create a New Project by Using the Console](#channels-email-setup-create-console)

## Create a New Project by Using the Console<a name="channels-email-setup-create-console"></a>

The first step in setting up email in Amazon Pinpoint is to create a new project\. Next, you verify an email address identity\.

In Amazon Pinpoint, an *identity* is an email address or domain that you use to send email\. Before you can send email using Amazon Pinpoint, you must verify each identity that you plan to use as a "From", "Source", "Sender", or "Return\-Path" address to prove that you own it\. If your account is still in the Amazon Pinpoint sandbox, you also need to verify the identities that you plan to send emails to\.

**To create a new Amazon Pinpoint project and verify an email address**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **Projects** page, choose **Create a project**\.

1. For **Project name**, type a name, and then choose **Create**\.
**Note**  
The project name can contain up to 64 alphanumeric characters\. It can also include the following characters: comma \(,\), period \(\.\), at sign \(@\), underscore \(\_\), equals sign \(=\), and plus sign \(\+\)\.

1. Under **Messaging channels**, next to **Email**, choose **Configure**\.

1. For **Email address**, type the email address that you want to verify, and then choose **Verify**\. Amazon Pinpoint sends an email to the address you specified\. Open the email, and then click the link in the message to verify your email address\.
