doc-source/channels-sms.md, before:

# Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel<a name="channels-sms"></a>

You can enable the SMS channel in Amazon Pinpoint to send text messages, or *SMS messages*, to SMS\-enabled devices\.

You can manage SMS channel settings to tailor your SMS deliveries for your use cases and budget\. For example, you can choose whether your messages are optimized for cost or for reliable delivery\. You can also specify spending limits for individual message deliveries and monthly spending limits\.

**Note**  
Your SMS channel settings apply to all SMS messages that you send from your AWS account\. This includes messages sent with AWS services other than Amazon Pinpoint\.

Where required by local laws and regulations \(such as the US and Canada\), SMS recipients can opt out, which means that they choose to stop receiving SMS messages from your AWS account\. 

You can use Amazon Pinpoint to send SMS messages to more than 200 countries and/or regions\. For more information, see [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)\.


+ [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-setup.md)
+ [Monitoring SMS Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-monitor.md)
+ [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-manage.md)
+ [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)

Commit message:

Added SMS Best Practices section.

doc-source/channels-sms.md, after:

# Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel<a name="channels-sms"></a>

You can enable the SMS channel in Amazon Pinpoint to send text messages, or *SMS messages*, to SMS\-enabled devices\.

For many use cases, you must [enable SMS options with AWS Support](channels-sms-awssupport.md) before you use Amazon Pinpoint to send SMS messages\. For example, to enable two\-way SMS, you must first obtain a dedicated origination number from AWS Support\. 

You can [manage SMS channel settings](channels-sms-manage.md) for your use case and budget\. For example, you can specify your monthly spending limit, and you can define keywords and responses for two\-way SMS\.

**Note**  
Your SMS channel settings apply to all SMS messages that you send from your AWS account\. This includes messages sent with AWS services other than Amazon Pinpoint\.

Where required by local laws and regulations \(such as the US and Canada\), SMS recipients can [opt out](channels-sms-manage.md#channels-sms-manage-optout), which means that they choose to stop receiving SMS messages from your AWS account\. 

You can use Amazon Pinpoint to send SMS messages to more than 200 countries and/or regions\. For more information, see [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)\.


+ [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-setup.md)
+ [Requesting Support for SMS Messaging with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport.md)
+ [Monitoring SMS Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-monitor.md)
+ [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-manage.md)
+ [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)
+ [SMS Best Practices](channels-sms-best-practices.md)
