doc-source/channels.md, before:

# Amazon Pinpoint Channels<a name="channels"></a>

A *channel* represents the platform through which you engage your audience segment with messages\. For example, to send push notifications to users of your apps, you must have an Amazon Pinpoint project in which the *push notifications* channel is enabled\. Amazon Pinpoint supports the following channel types:
+ [Push notifications](channels-mobile.md)
+ [Email](channels-email.md)
+ [SMS](channels-sms.md)
+ [Voice](channels-voice.md)

Before you can use Amazon Pinpoint to engage your audience, you have to create an Amazon Pinpoint project, and that project has to support one or more channels\.

After you create a project and enable a channel, you can use your project to send messages\. You can [define the audience segment](segments.md) that you want to engage and then [define a campaign](campaigns.md) that sends messages to that segment\. Or, to send a message to a limited audience, you can [send a test message](messages.md) without creating a campaign\.

**Topics**
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Push Notification Channels](channels-mobile.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Voice Channel](channels-voice.md)

Commit message:

Added content about sending campaigns using custom channels

doc-source/channels.md, after:

# Amazon Pinpoint Channels<a name="channels"></a>

A *channel* represents the platform through which you engage your audience segment with messages\. For example, to send push notifications to users of your apps, you must have an Amazon Pinpoint project in which the *push notifications* channel is enabled\. Amazon Pinpoint supports the following channels:
+ [Push notifications](channels-mobile.md)
+ [Email](channels-email.md)
+ [SMS](channels-sms.md)
+ [Voice](channels-voice.md)

In addition to these channels, you can also extend the capabilities to meet your specific use case by creating [custom channels](channels-custom.md)\.

Before you can use Amazon Pinpoint to engage your audience, you have to create an Amazon Pinpoint project\. After you create a project, you can use it to send campaigns\. To engage your customers using campaigns, start by [defining the audience segment](segments.md) that you want to engage\. Next, [define that campaign](campaigns.md) that you want to send to the segment\.

**Topics**
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Push Notification Channels](channels-mobile.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Voice Channel](channels-voice.md)
+ [Custom Channels in Amazon Pinpoint](channels-custom.md)
