doc-source/index.md, before:

# Amazon Pinpoint User Guide

-----
*****Copyright &copy; 2018 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*****

-----
Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in 
     connection with any product or service that is not Amazon's, 
     in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among customers, 
     or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon. All other 
     trademarks not owned by Amazon are the property of their respective
     owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or 
     sponsored by Amazon.

-----
## Contents
+ [What Is Amazon Pinpoint?](welcome.md)
+ [Getting Started with Amazon Pinpoint](gettingstarted.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Channels](channels.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint Mobile Push Channels](channels-mobile.md)
      + [Setting up Amazon Pinpoint Mobile Push Channels](channels-mobile-setup.md)
      + [Monitoring Mobile Push Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-mobile-monitor.md)
      + [Managing Mobile Push Channels with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-mobile-manage.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email.md)
      + [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email-setup.md)
         + [Creating an Amazon Pinpoint Project with Email Support](channels-email-setup-create.md)
         + [Email Address or Domain Verification](channels-email-manage-verify.md)
         + [Domain Verification TXT Records](channels-email-setup-txt-record.md)
         + [Requesting Production Access for Email](channels-email-setup-production-access.md)
      + [Monitoring Email Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-email-monitor.md)
      + [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email-manage.md)
         + [Updating Email Settings](channels-email-manage-update.md)
         + [Managing Email Sending Limits](channels-email-manage-limits.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms.md)
      + [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-setup.md)
      + [Monitoring SMS Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-monitor.md)
      + [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-manage.md)
      + [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Segments](segments.md)
   + [Building Segments](segments-building.md)
   + [Importing Segments](segments-importing.md)
   + [Managing Segments](segments-managing.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Campaigns](campaigns.md)
   + [Step 1: Begin a New Campaign](campaigns-begin.md)
   + [Step 2: Specify the Audience Segment for the Campaign](campaigns-segment.md)
   + [Step 3: Write the Message](campaigns-message.md)
   + [Step 4: Set the Campaign Schedule](campaigns-schedule.md)
   + [Step 5: Review and Launch the Campaign](campaigns-review.md)
   + [Managing Campaigns](campaigns-managing.md)
+ [Direct Messages with Amazon Pinpoint](messages.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Analytics](analytics.md)
   + [Chart Reference for Amazon Pinpoint Analytics](analytics-charts.md)
   + [Funnel Analytics](analytics-funnels.md)
   + [Streaming App and Campaign Events with Amazon Pinpoint](analytics-streaming.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Settings](settings.md)
   + [Managing Account Settings in Amazon Pinpoint](settings-account.md)
   + [Managing Project Settings in Amazon Pinpoint](settings-project.md)
+ [Document History for Amazon Pinpoint](doc-history.md)

Commit message:

Added SMS Best Practices section.

doc-source/index.md, after:

# Amazon Pinpoint User Guide

-----
*****Copyright &copy; 2018 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*****

-----
Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in 
     connection with any product or service that is not Amazon's, 
     in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among customers, 
     or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon. All other 
     trademarks not owned by Amazon are the property of their respective
     owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or 
     sponsored by Amazon.

-----
## Contents
+ [What Is Amazon Pinpoint?](welcome.md)
+ [Getting Started with Amazon Pinpoint](gettingstarted.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Channels](channels.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint Mobile Push Channels](channels-mobile.md)
      + [Setting up Amazon Pinpoint Mobile Push Channels](channels-mobile-setup.md)
      + [Monitoring Mobile Push Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-mobile-monitor.md)
      + [Managing Mobile Push Channels with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-mobile-manage.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email.md)
      + [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email-setup.md)
         + [Creating an Amazon Pinpoint Project with Email Support](channels-email-setup-create.md)
         + [Email Address or Domain Verification](channels-email-manage-verify.md)
         + [Domain Verification TXT Records](channels-email-setup-txt-record.md)
         + [Requesting Production Access for Email](channels-email-setup-production-access.md)
      + [Monitoring Email Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-email-monitor.md)
      + [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint Email Channel](channels-email-manage.md)
         + [Updating Email Settings](channels-email-manage-update.md)
         + [Managing Email Sending Limits](channels-email-manage-limits.md)
   + [Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms.md)
      + [Setting up the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-setup.md)
      + [Requesting Support for SMS Messaging with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport.md)
         + [Requesting Increases to Your Monthly SMS Spend Threshold for Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport-spend-threshold.md)
         + [Requesting Dedicated Short Codes for SMS Messaging with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport-short-code.md)
         + [Requesting Dedicated Long Codes for SMS Messaging with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport-long-code.md)
         + [Requesting Sender IDs for SMS Messaging with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-awssupport-sender-id.md)
      + [Monitoring SMS Activity with Amazon Pinpoint](channels-sms-monitor.md)
      + [Managing the Amazon Pinpoint SMS Channel](channels-sms-manage.md)
      + [Supported Countries and Regions](channels-sms-countries.md)
      + [SMS Best Practices](channels-sms-best-practices.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Segments](segments.md)
   + [Building Segments](segments-building.md)
   + [Importing Segments](segments-importing.md)
   + [Managing Segments](segments-managing.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Campaigns](campaigns.md)
   + [Step 1: Begin a New Campaign](campaigns-begin.md)
   + [Step 2: Specify the Audience Segment for the Campaign](campaigns-segment.md)
   + [Step 3: Write the Message](campaigns-message.md)
   + [Step 4: Set the Campaign Schedule](campaigns-schedule.md)
   + [Step 5: Review and Launch the Campaign](campaigns-review.md)
   + [Managing Campaigns](campaigns-managing.md)
+ [Direct Messages with Amazon Pinpoint](messages.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Analytics](analytics.md)
   + [Chart Reference for Amazon Pinpoint Analytics](analytics-charts.md)
   + [Funnel Analytics](analytics-funnels.md)
   + [Streaming App and Campaign Events with Amazon Pinpoint](analytics-streaming.md)
+ [Amazon Pinpoint Settings](settings.md)
   + [Managing Account Settings in Amazon Pinpoint](settings-account.md)
   + [Managing Project Settings in Amazon Pinpoint](settings-project.md)
+ [Document History for Amazon Pinpoint](doc-history.md)
