doc-source/journeys.md, before:

# Amazon Pinpoint Journeys<a name="journeys"></a>

In Amazon Pinpoint, a *journey* is a customized, multi\-step engagement experience\. When you create a journey, you start by choosing a segment that defines which customers will participate in the journey\. After that, you add the activities that customers pass through on their journeys\. Activities can include sending messages or splitting customers into groups based on their behaviors\.

There are several different types of journey activities, each with its own specific purpose\. For example, you can add an **Email** activity to your journey\. When a customer arrives on the Email activity, they receive an email message\. Another type of journey activity is the **Multivariate split** activity\. When customers arrive on this type of activity, they are separated into multiple paths based on their segment membership or their interactions with previous journey activities\. You can learn more about journey activities in [Take a Tour of Journeys](journeys-tour.md)\.

This section contains conceptual information about journeys in Amazon Pinpoint\. It also contains information about creating, managing, testing, and publishing your journeys\.

**Topics**
+ [Take a Tour of Journeys](journeys-tour.md)
+ [Create a Journey](journeys-create.md)
+ [Review and Test a Journey](journeys-review-test.md)
+ [Publish a Journey](journeys-publish.md)
+ [View Journey Metrics](journeys-metrics.md)

Commit message:

Added content about template versioning and best practices for journeys

doc-source/journeys.md, after:

# Amazon Pinpoint Journeys<a name="journeys"></a>

In Amazon Pinpoint, a *journey* is a customized, multi\-step engagement experience\. When you create a journey, you start by choosing a segment that defines which customers will participate in the journey\. After that, you add the activities that customers pass through on their journeys\. Activities can include sending messages or splitting customers into groups based on their attributes or behaviors\.

There are several different types of journey activities, each with its own specific purpose\. For example, you can add a **Send email** activity to your journey\. When a customer arrives on this type of activity, they receive an email message\. Another type of journey activity is the **Multivariate split** activity\. When customers arrive on this type of activity, they are separated into multiple paths based on their segment membership or their interactions with previous journey activities\. You can learn more about journey activities in [Take a Tour of Journeys](journeys-tour.md)\.

This chapter contains conceptual information about journeys in Amazon Pinpoint\. It also contains information about creating, managing, testing, and publishing your journeys\.

**Topics**
+ [Take a Tour of Journeys](journeys-tour.md)
+ [Create a Journey](journeys-create.md)
+ [Review and Test a Journey](journeys-review-test.md)
+ [Publish a Journey](journeys-publish.md)
+ [View Journey Metrics](journeys-metrics.md)
+ [Tips and Best Practices for Journeys](journeys-best-practices.md)
