doc-source/message-templates-creating-sms.md, before:

# Creating SMS Templates<a name="message-templates-creating-sms"></a>

An *SMS template* is a type of message template that contains content that you want to create, save, and reuse in SMS text messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. You can use an SMS template in text messages that you send as campaign messages, transactional messages, direct messages, or test messages\.

When you create an SMS template, you specify the content that you want to reuse in the body of text messages that are based on the template\. When you create a message that’s based on the template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the content that you defined in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\.

**To create an SMS template**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Message templates**\.

1. Choose **Create a template**\.

1. Under **Channel**, choose **SMS**\.

1. Under **Template details**, for **Template name**, enter a name for the template\. The name has to begin with a letter or number\. It can contain up to 128 characters\. The characters can be letters, numbers, underscores \(\_\), or hyphens \(‐\)\.

1. Under **SMS details**, for **Message**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of messages that use the template\. The message body can contain up to 1,600 characters\.

1. When you finish entering content for the template, choose **Create**\.

Commit message:

Added content about using voice templates and using message variables in any type of template

doc-source/message-templates-creating-sms.md, after:

# Creating SMS Templates<a name="message-templates-creating-sms"></a>

An *SMS template* is a type of message template that contains content and settings that you want to create, save, and reuse in SMS text messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. You can use an SMS template in text messages that you send from campaigns, or to a limited audience as direct or test messages\.

When you create an SMS template, you specify the settings and content that you want to reuse in the body of text messages that are based on the template\. When you create a message that’s based on the template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the settings and content that you defined in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\.

**To create an SMS template**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Message templates**\.

1. Choose **Create a template**\.

1. Under **Channel**, choose **SMS**\.

1. Under **Template details**, for **Template name**, enter a name for the template\. The name has to begin with a letter or number\. It can contain up to 128 characters\. The characters can be letters, numbers, underscores \(\_\), or hyphens \(‐\)\.

1. \(Optional\) For **Template description**, enter a brief description of the template\. The description can contain up to 500 characters\.

1. Under **SMS details**, for **Message**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of messages that use the template\. The message body can contain up to 1,600 characters\.
**Tip**  
You can include personalized content in the body of the template\. To do this, add message variables that refer to specific attributes that you or Amazon Pinpoint created for the project, such as an attribute that stores a user's first name\. By using message variables, you can display different content for each recipient of a message that uses the template\. To use a message variable, add the name of an existing attribute to the template\. Enclose the name in two sets of curly braces and use the exact capitalization of the name—for example, `{{Attributes.FirstName}}`\. For more information, see [Adding Personalized Content to Message Templates](message-templates-personalizing.md)\.

1. \(Optional\) If you added personalized content to the template by using message variables, specify a default value for each variable\. If you do this, Amazon Pinpoint replaces the variable with the value that you specify, if a corresponding value doesn't exist for a recipient\. To specify default values for variables, expand the **Default personalization values** section\. Then enter the default value that you want to use for each variable\. If you don't specify a default value and a value doesn't exist for a recipient, Amazon Pinpoint omits all text for the variable when it sends a message to that recipient\.

1. When you finish entering content and settings for the template, choose **Create**\.
