doc-source/message-templates-creating-email.md, before:

# Creating Email Templates<a name="message-templates-creating-email"></a>

An *email template*is a type of message template that contains content that you want to create, save, and reuse in email messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. You can use an email template in email messages that you send as campaign messages, journey messages, transactional messages, direct messages, or test messages\.

When you create an email template, you specify the content that you want to reuse in various components of email messages that are based on the template\. These components, referred to as *template parts*, can be the message subject, the message body, or both\. When you create an email message that’s based on the template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the content that you defined in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\.

**To create an email template**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Message templates**\.

1. Choose **Create a template**\.

1. Under **Channel**, choose **Email**\.

1. Under **Template details**, for **Template name**, enter a name for the template\. The name has to begin with a letter or number\. It can contain up to 128 characters\. The characters can be letters, numbers, underscores \(\_\), or hyphens \(‐\)\.

1. Under **Email details**, for **Subject**, enter the text that you want to display in the subject line of messages that use the template\.

1. Under **Message**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of messages that use the template\. You can enter the content by using either the HTML or Design view\. In the HTML view, you can manually enter HTML content, including formatting, links, and other features that you want to include in the template\. In the Design view, you can use a rich text editor to enter the content, and use the formatting toolbar to apply formatting and add links and other features to the content\. To switch views, choose **HTML** or **Design** from the view selector above the message editor\.

1. \(Optional\) Under **Plain text version**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of messages that use the template and are sent to recipients whose email applications don't display HTML\.

1. When you finish entering content for the template, choose **Create**\.

Commit message:

Added content about using voice templates and using message variables in any type of template

doc-source/message-templates-creating-email.md, after:

# Creating Email Templates<a name="message-templates-creating-email"></a>

An *email template* is a type of message template that contains content and settings that you want to create, save, and reuse in email messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. You can use an email template in any type of email message that you create and send by using Amazon Pinpoint\.

When you create an email template, you specify the content and settings that you want to reuse in various components of email messages that are based on the template\. These components, referred to as *template parts*, can be the message subject, the message body, or both\. The content can be static text, personalized content, images, or other design elements\. A template part can also be a setting, such as the message body to use if a recipient's email application doesn't display HTML content\.

When you create an email message that’s based on a template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the content and settings that you defined in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\. 

**To create an email template**

1. Open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Message templates**\.

1. Choose **Create a template**\.

1. Under **Channel**, choose **Email**\.

1. Under **Template details**, for **Template name**, enter a name for the template\. The name has to begin with a letter or number\. It can contain up to 128 characters\. The characters can be letters, numbers, underscores \(\_\), or hyphens \(‐\)\.

1. \(Optional\) For **Template description**, enter a brief description of the template\. The description can contain up to 500 characters\.

1. Under **Email details**, use the following options to specify the content for messages that use the template:
   + For **Subject**, enter the text that you want to display in the subject line of the message\.
   + For **Message**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of the message\.
**Tip**  
For the message body, you can enter the content by using either the HTML or Design view\. In the HTML view, you can manually enter HTML content, including formatting, links, and other features that you want to include in the message\. In the Design view, you can use a rich text editor to enter the content\. Use the formatting toolbar to apply formatting and add links and other features to the content\. To switch views, choose **HTML** or **Design** from the view selector above the message editor\.  
You can also include personalized content in the subject and body of the template\. To do this, add message variables that refer to specific attributes that you or Amazon Pinpoint created for the project, such as an attribute that stores a user's first name\. By using message variables, you can display different content for each recipient of a message that uses the template\. To use a message variable, add the name of an existing attribute to the template\. Enclose the name in two sets of curly braces and use the exact capitalization of the name—for example, `{{Attributes.FirstName}}`\. For more information, see [Adding Personalized Content to Message Templates](message-templates-personalizing.md)\.

1. \(Optional\) Under **Plain text version**, enter the content that you want to display in the body of messages that use the template and are sent to recipients whose email applications don't display HTML content\.

1. \(Optional\) If you added personalized content to the template by using message variables, specify a default value for each variable\. If you do this, Amazon Pinpoint replaces the variable with the value that you specify, if a corresponding value doesn't exist for a recipient\. To specify default values for variables, expand the **Default personalization values** section\. Then enter the default value that you want to use for each variable\. If you don't specify a default value and a value doesn't exist for a recipient, Amazon Pinpoint omits all text for the variable when it sends a message to that recipient\.

1. When you finish entering content and settings for the template, choose **Create**\.
