doc-source/messages-templates.md, before:

# Amazon Pinpoint Message Templates<a name="messages-templates"></a>

If you frequently design and send a certain type of message, such as a weekly newsletter or an appointment reminder, you can create and save it as a message template\. You can then use the template as a starting point each time you need to create that type of message, instead of designing and writing the message again\.

A *message template* is a set of content that you can create, save, and then reuse in messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. When you create a template, you specify the content that you want to reuse in various components of messages that are based on the template\. These components, referred to as *template parts*, can be the subject or title of a message, the body of a message, or both\. For push notifications, template parts can also specify settings such as a custom sound to play or an image to display when a recipient receives a push notification that's based on the template\.

When you create a message, you can choose to use an existing template for the message\. If you choose a template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the content and settings in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\.

You can create the following types of message templates in Amazon Pinpoint:
+ Email templates for email messages
+ Push notification templates for push notifications
+ SMS templates for SMS text messages

You can use message templates in messages that you send from campaigns and journeys, and in transactional messages, direct messages, and test messages\.

**Topics**
+ [Creating Email Templates](message-templates-creating-email.md)
+ [Creating Push Notification Templates](message-templates-creating-push.md)
+ [Creating SMS Templates](message-templates-creating-sms.md)
+ [Managing Message Templates](message-templates-managing.md)

Commit message:

Added content about using voice templates and using message variables in any type of template

doc-source/messages-templates.md, after:

# Amazon Pinpoint Message Templates<a name="messages-templates"></a>

If you frequently design and send a certain type of message, such as a weekly newsletter or an appointment reminder, you can create and save it as a message template\. You can then use the template as a starting point each time you need to create that type of message, instead of designing and writing the message again\.

A *message template* is a set of content and settings that you can create, save, and then reuse in messages that you send for any of your Amazon Pinpoint projects\. When you create a template, you specify the content that you want to reuse in various components of messages that are based on the template\. These components, referred to as *template parts*, can contain static text, personalized content, images, and other design elements, depending on the type of template\. A template part can also contain channel\-specific settings\. For example, a template part in a push notification template can specify a custom sound to play or an image to display when a recipient receives a push notification that's based on the template\.

When you create a message, you can choose a template to use for the message\. If you choose a template, Amazon Pinpoint populates the message with the content and settings in the template\. You can then send the message as it is or customize it\.

You can design the following types of message templates in Amazon Pinpoint:
+ Email templates for email messages that you send from campaigns or journeys, or to a limited audience as direct or test messages\.
+ Push notification templates for push notifications that you send from campaigns, or to a limited audience as direct or test messages\.
+ SMS templates for SMS text messages that you send from campaigns, or to a limited audience as direct or test messages\.
+ Voice templates for voice messages that you send as direct or test messages\.

The topics in this chapter explain how to create and manage message templates for your Amazon Pinpoint account\.

**Topics**
+ [Creating Email Templates](message-templates-creating-email.md)
+ [Creating Push Notification Templates](message-templates-creating-push.md)
+ [Creating SMS Templates](message-templates-creating-sms.md)
+ [Creating Voice Templates](message-templates-creating-voice.md)
+ [Adding Personalized Content to Message Templates](message-templates-personalizing.md)
+ [Managing Message Templates](message-templates-managing.md)
