doc-source/segments-managing.md, before:

# Managing Segments<a name="segments-managing"></a>

You can use the Amazon Pinpoint console to create new segments, update the settings for existing segments, duplicate segments, delete segments, and more\.

**To manage a segment**

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **Projects** page, choose the project that you want to manage segments for\.

1. On the navigation menu, choose **Segments**\.

1. On the **Segments** page, choose the segment that you want to manage\.

On the **Segment** page, for a segment that's [built from segmentation criteria](segments-building.md), you can do the following:
+ **Create campaign** – [Create a campaign](campaigns-begin.md) that uses the segment you're managing\.
+ **Copy to new** – Copy the segment to use its settings as a template for a new segment, in which you can change or keep any of the original settings\.
+ **Edit segment** – Change any of the segment's settings, such as the segmentation criteria that define which users belong to the segment\.
+ **Delete segment** – Remove the segment from Amazon Pinpoint\. The segment becomes unavailable for future campaigns, but preexisting campaigns that use the segment are unaffected\.

For an [imported segment](segments-importing.md), you can do the following:
+ **Create campaign** – [Create a campaign](campaigns-begin.md) that uses the segment you're managing\.
+ **Reimport segment** – Update the segment with the endpoint files that are currently stored in the Amazon S3 location that you originally imported the segment from\.
+ **Delete segment** – Remove the segment from Amazon Pinpoint\. The segment becomes unavailable for future campaigns, but preexisting campaigns that use the segment are unaffected\.

Commit message:

Updated documentation for new Pinpoint console user interface.

doc-source/segments-managing.md, after:

# Managing Segments<a name="segments-managing"></a>

You can use the Amazon Pinpoint console to create, update, duplicate, and delete segments\. You can also use the Segments page in the console to create campaigns that target existing segments\.

**To manage a segment**

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Pinpoint console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/pinpoint/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/pinpoint/)\.

1. On the **Projects** page, choose the project that contains the segments that you want to manage\.

1. In the list of segments, choose the segment that you want to manage\.

1.  On the **Actions** menu, choose one of the following options:
   + **View details** – Choose this option to show information about the segment, including the approximate number of endpoints that meet the segment criteria, the date and time when the segment was created, and the date and time when the segment was last updated\. When you view the details of a dynamic segment, you see the segment groups and filters that define the segment\. When you view the details of an imported segment, you see the Amazon S3 location that the segment was imported from, as well as the name of the IAM role that was used to import the segment\.
   + **Edit segment** – Choose this option to modify the segment\. You can use this option with any type of segment to change the segment name\. When you edit a dynamic segment, you can change the segment groups that define the segment\. When you edit an imported segment, you can change the Amazon S3 location that the segment is imported from, as well as the IAM role that is used to import the segment\.
   + **Duplicate** – Choose this option to create a new segment that is a copy of the chosen segment\. You can modify all of the settings in the new segment to meet your requirements\.
   + **Delete** – Choose this option to delete the segment\. The segment becomes unavailable for future campaigns, but existing campaigns that use the segment are not affected\.
